                                   
                                   
                                   
                                   LINUX FILE SYSTEM
                                   
                                   
    A Linux file System is a structured collection of files on a disk drive or a partition.A partition is a segment of 
memory and contains some specific data.
    The general-purpose computer system needs to store data systematically so that we can easily acesss the files 
in less time.It stores the data on hard disks(HDD) or some equivalent storage type.There may be below reasons for 
maintaining the files system:
     *The computer saves data to the RAM storage;it may lose the data if it gets tured off.
     *Data storage is preferred on hard drives  as compared to standard RAM as RAM costs more than disk space.
 The LINUX file system contains the following sections:
       * The root directory(/)
       * A specific data storage format (EXT3,EXT4,BTRFS,XFS and so on)
       * A partition or logical volume having a particular file system.

  LINUX FILE SYSTEM : Linux file system is generally a built-in layer of a LINUX OPERATING SYSTEM used to handle
 the data management of the storage. It helps to arrange the file on the disk storage. It manages the file name, file size,creation date, and much more information about a file.
  LINUX FILE SYSTEM FEATURES
           In Linux, the system creates a tree structure. All the files are arranged as a tree and its branches. The topmost 
directory called the ROOT(/) directory. All other directories in linux can be accesed from the root directory.
Some key features of Liunx file system are as following :
        *SPECIFYING PATHS :Linux does not use the backslash (/) to Separate the components; it uses forward slash (/) as an alternative.
       *PARTITION,DIRECTORIES AND DRIVES : Linux does not use drive letters to organize the drive as Windows does. In Linux, we cannot tell whether we are addressing a partition, a network device, or an "ordinary" directory and a Drive.
      *CASE SENSITIVE : Linux file system is case sentive.It distinguishes between lowercase and uppercase file names.
      *FILE EXTENSIONS : In Linux, a file may have the extension '.txt',but it is not necessary that a file should have a file 
should have a file extention. If we use the graphical file manages, it symbolizes the file and folders.
       *HIDDEN FILES : Linux distinguishes between standard files and hidden files. To access the files, we need to changes the view in the file manager or need t use a specific command in the shell.
                   TYPES OF LINUX FILE SYSTEM
      1.EXT,EXT2,EXT3, and EXT4 files system
      2.JFS File System
      3.ReiserFS File System
      4.XFS File System
      5.Btrfs File System
      6.Swap File System
  LINUX CREATE FILE :
       . using cat command 
      . using touch command
     . using redirect '>' symbol
     .using echo command
    . using printf command
    .using a different text editor like vim,nano,vi
    
    
    
    
    
    